# CrmScheduler
Customer Relationship Manager that provides the ability to schedule appointments, create customers, and, view stats about them. All data is stored in a MySQL database.

## Manage Customers
Customers can be created, updated, deleted, and, retrieved. Customers are a core part of Appointments.

## Manage Appointments
Appointments can also be created, updated, deleted, and, retrieved. They follow additional rules however.

- Appointments must be scheduled within business hours (8 A.M. - 10 P.M. EST)
- Appointments cannot conflict with an already existing appointment a customer already has. For eaxmple, if the Customer has an appointment that starts at 8 and ends at 9, they cannot have an appointment scheduled until at least 9:01 
- Appointments cannot be created with the same start and end time. 9:00 A.M. for both the start and finish times would throw an error.
- Appointments must follow logical timing. An appointment cannot start before it ends, and it can't end before it starts.

## View reports
- Reports can be displayed, giving a summary of things such as appointments by doctor, by appointment type and month, as well as a general overview for expired and upcoming appointments.

## Additional functionality
- The program has the built in logic to detect the system's language. If its english, the forms can be displayed in english. If its french, it will be displayed in french. This is not supported for other languages, and only has proof of concept on the login form and the errors generated by it.
- Database logging. Every transaction is timed and logged to a table in the database, along with their method signature and, whether or not it failed. This is accomplished using Spring AOP aspects. Logins attempts are also tracked by an aspect and logged to login_activity.txt.
- All times are stored in the database as UTC. When being read in the application, they will be convered to the user's local time. It is important to note that it will also convert local times to universal time, and when checked against business logic, they will be converted to eastern time. This results in an appointment being scheduled to start at 9 P.M. in PST to fail because it would be 12: A.M. in EST.

## Project created with
- Java
- Hibernate for database manipulations
- Spring to provide AOP and dependency injection
- JavaFX to build the GUI
- MySQL to store data

### This project should in theory run on Mac or Linux, but has not been tested.
